So with that, let's talk a little bit
about kind of just moving stuff around and
getting stuff aligned, right?
And so
Figma does a lot to make your life easier.
It's not like you have to have like
an eagle eye where you can see literally
everything.
In this case, you notice that you
can go and drag something, that for
the most part,
let's zoom in a little bit here.
As we get close to another object,
you'll see that it begins to snap.
And on my MacBook trackpad,
there's tactile feedback when something
like is snapping into place,
your mileage may vary.
You can see, okay, if they are kind of
equidistant from the next one near it,
it'll give you a few of those
things to kinda snap into place.
You can also hold Option, for
instance, and measure things.
We'll see that in
the next session as well.
The distance between various units.
But sometimes it makes sense to, like,
hey, I have a whole bunch of stuff and
I want to kinda align it, right?
So in any of those cases, you can choose
any of these options over here and
begin to align some stuff as well.
So let's actually take a look at that,
in some use cases,
where with three boxes,
not that hard to drag it around.
Let's up the ante to five, right?
Could I sit there and
try to get them all equidistant over time?
Absolutely, I could.
Do I want to?
No, I don't.
So what I can do is kinda make
use of some of the initial tools.
So here I can select all of
them by clicking and dragging.
You could hold Shift and
click on each one of them individually,
whatever makes you the happiest,
go for it.
And then we can align it either,
I don't wanna do any of these cuz
these are on the vertical axes.
But if I wanna get these all
in the same horizontal axis,
I can do a line to the top, the vertical
centers of each or to the bottom.
In this case, doesn't really matter which
one I pick, but I could theoretically line
them all vertically centered, and
that gets me most of the way there.
But you can kinda see there's some
like different spacing in here.
And you'll look, I get this icon here
that is very similar to the icon there.
And there's Tidy up.
There's also,
if I just wanna do on one axes,
I can distribute the vertical spacing,
which they're all on the same axis, or
the horizontal spacing,
at which point they all even out.
And one of the really cool things that
you'll see is when they are even, and
it knows they're even, it gives you the
ability to adjust that either manually.
So I can change this to 32 if I want, or
I can kind of grab in the middle here and
drag as well.
So you can do that either on the X or
the Y axis.
You can also, if you have maybe like
a grid of things, you can go ahead and
get this all in place where you can see
that, it'll try to guess what I need.
So we've got the vertical spacing and
the horizontal spacing.
Neither one of these is
gonna do what I want, right.
That's not what I need.
So what I can do is this Tidy up
will do the best to arrange stuff in
the closest it can to a grid.
And the thing you'll notice here now is
because things are evenly distributed
on both kind of the x and the y-axis,
I can actually adjust either one of those.
And I can either change the number or we
can see I get this little curse like this,
I can do this motion.
And there's a lot of tactile feedback
from the trackpad and feels great and
kind of aligned stuff in
a way that makes sense.
You can do the same thing like this.
And those will be when
everything is uniform.
One of the things that we'll find out in
our time together is there's a lot to love
about Figma.
One of the kind of slightly
tedious things is like certain
features will only appear
when they're applicable.
And if it's not a place where you can do
that thing, you just won't see the tool,
but the presence of the tool means
you can do the thing, as well as,
like I said before,
I can adjust the spacing here.
There are lots of options but that, again,
only happens when they are in
an even distribution like this.
Cool, let's see what else we got in here.
We do have an exercise for
you, which is basically
taking some of the stuff you just
saw me do and taking it for a spin.
So in this case, we've got somethings
that are out of order, right?
Why don't you spend a few minutes and
just,
we're just trying to get warmed up here,
and kinda get to the point where we can
kinda take on some definitely
more ambitious challenges.
But just in terms of getting a feel for
Figma itself, let's see if we can
kind of make the top picture look
a little bit more like the bottom picture
All right, so now,
another particularly special here,
what we can do is we can hold Shift and
grab a bunch of these.
One thing you'll notice is, if you're
not getting anything that you want, and
I'll talk about this a little bit later,
too, you can hold Command, and
it'll be literally
the thing under the mouse.
So if you're not always getting exactly,
cuz it's trying, there's a lot going on.
There's a lot of stacked layers.
You can hold Command, you can hold Shift,
select multiple things.
Here, I can try this out, and it will
give me at least the vertical spacing,
and then I could theoretically put
them all on the same axis like this.
Similarly, I can do this here as well.
It will try to even them out like that,
but
then I can also put them on the same axis.
One of the other things that you
can do is, yeah, theoretically,
did I spiritually complete this exercise?
I did.
Are they exact matches?
They're not.
So the other option that you always
have is actually looking at the values
themselves.
And you can do a few cool things here.
One, I could theoretically, okay,
this is 61, 51, this is 30, 40.
I can adjust them by
hand by typing in values.
And you'll notice that these are relative
to the frame that they're in, and
we'll talk about frames
in the next section.
But they're relative to,
let's just call it a box for now.
The box that they're in,
you can do math in these, right?
For instance, you can write 30 plus 21 and
it will update to 51.
You can also divide by half.
Let's say, hypothetically,
you're working on a workshop and
you took a bunch of retina screenshots
that it thought it was double the pixels.
You could just do slash two and cut the
width in half and stuff along those lines.
So you can get a lot of that
kinda in place here and
adjust stuff as needed,
and move stuff in bulk.
Again, option will show you the distance.
So these are 84 apart.
These are 84 apart, so it's really just
bulk moving these in the right direction.
Could I sit here and adjust the pixels?
11, totally.
I think we've got most of the point there,
but to show that there are lots of
different ways to have some introspection
and manipulate the position of objects.
Seems really low level, so it's things
that make using some of these tools
really frustrating or like,
I know how to do these things.
If you've seen the movie The Matrix, it's
basically that, but you're using Figma.